Creatine (β-methylguanidineacetic acid) — an organic chemical containing structural elements of guanidine and acetic acid. In animal organisms, it is formed through metabolism, mainly in muscle and tendons. Creatine was discovered in 1832 by Michel Eugène Chevreul as a component of the skeletal muscle, and its name was given from the Greek word kreas ("meat")[4].

It undergoes phosphorylation using the enzyme creatine kinase passing into phosphocreatin. It is used to store and release the energy necessary for many chemical processes occurring in cells, including muscle protein synthesis.

Creatine is present in the muscle (98% of the total creatine content in the human body)[5], small amounts of this compound are also found in the brain, liver, kidneys and testicles. It is estimated that the daily requirement of the body of a person weighing 70 kg per creatine is 2 g, with 1 g of this compound being synthesized by the body with amino acids and the remaining amount should be delivered in food[6] – the best sources of creatine are meat (1 g is contained in 250 g of fresh meat) and fish[6][7]. Creatine preparations are used by people who practice strength sports.

Glycine reacts in the system with arginine and against the enzyme transamine ferment converts to guanidine acetic acid, or glucocyamine, from arginine then forms ornithine (which stimulates the secretion of growth hormone). Glucocyamine in the body produces creatine. The formation of creatine binds in tissues to phosphoric acid forming creatinephosphoric acid (phosphagen), necessary for life processes in animal tissues.

In the 1990s, creatine gained special publicity as a natural way to increase sports results and build lean body mass. The total creatine content in skeletal muscle was found to be increased after oral administration of dietary supplements, and this content varies and depends on many factors, including carbohydrate intake, physical activity and type of muscle fiber. As a result, creatine has been used as an additive for dietary supplements used before training[8]. Various forms of creatine are available on the market, including citrate, malate, ethyl ester, nitrate, hydrochloride, gluconate, α-ketoglutarate and orotane[8].