Duck — a name identifying certain species in the duck family, duck subfamily, in particular Anas, Netta and Aythya. In Poland, it is customary to divide ducks into floating ducks (specific ducks) and diving ducks (games).

The word duck for wild ducks appeared in the 14th century, and in the 15th century also domestic ducks began to be defined. This word replaced the Old Slavic word anathema, a nite (rutka, lit. antis, german. ente, Latin anas)[1]. The Western Slavic word duck, like Czech folk káča/kačka and Slovak kačka/kačica, is an expression of soundtrack origin. The word duck, identifying the male duck, entered into use in the 15th century[2].

In the Polish avifauna, ducks are traditionally divided into floating ducks (specific ducks; Anatini) and diving ducks (graves; Aythyni). This first group includes species of the genus Anas, among others Netta and Aythya[3]. The ducks belong to the Anatini tribe and the Aythyini game. The third tribe of ducks is Mergini[4].

Most of the Anatini tribe are small birds with short limbs. The whole world is inhabited, including isolated islands; the species inhabiting such species include a settled white-eyed cross (Anas laysanensis) and anus aucklandica (Anas aucklandica). The tribe also includes migratory species such as the roe (Anas acuta), the Carolin cyanx (Anas carolinensis) and the mareca penelope. Many small representatives of this tribe are excellent aviators. Some of the proper ducks can sit on trees. In many species, males are colored brightly, mostly with an opalescent mirror on the wing, while females and young men are colored maskingly. After the breeding season, the males undergo washing and feathered, they are like females, mostly brown[4]. The ducks look for proper food in the surface layers of water. Planktons and small fragments of plants are removed, which allow them to be located in the beak of overlapping horn plates[3]. About 1⁄3 species of this tribe nest in holes. These young species have sharp claws and stiff tails. With the exception of several tropical species in which the male helps to guard the young, the chicks are exclusively treated with females[4].