Hot dog – hot sausage or sausage with cold sauce (majonez, ketchup) served most often in a long bun. A typical American dish and an example of fast food.

The essential ingredients of hot dog are an oblong roll and a heated sausage. Initially, the roll was "tipped" with a special rod-shaped instrument about 2 cm in diameter with a cone; a heated steamer (so-called hot dog French) was inserted into the opening. Currently, the roll is most often cut (not cut), and the sausage - heated in a microwave. The bun should also be warm. Various additives are added, most often ketchup, mustard and various vegetables (e.g. chopped onions, lettuce, sliced cabbage, tomatoes, etc.). The original American hot dog did not contain additives.

The history of the hot dog began in Frankfurt am Main, which is traditionally attributed to the place where the sausages were created in 1487, hence the Polish name Frankfurterka. Another version says that the sausages were invented by Johann Georghehner, a butcher by profession who, around 1600, invented sausages called Dachshund, or dachshund, with whom he went to Frankfurt.[1]

The next stage involves the arrival of immigrants from different countries in the United States. Among them were also butchers, including Charles Feltman, Germany, who in 1871 opened Coney Island's first box with a roofshund in a milk bun. During the first year he sold 3684 such dishes. Some claim that before Feltman, in the 1960s, a nearby German opened a booth with similar dishes.[1]

In 1893, a hot dog was popularized – first due to World’s Columbian Exposition, the last World Fair in the 19th century. Hundreds of booths were opened there to meet the needs of a multimillion-dollar crowd of visitors. The second important event was the opening of the first hot dog stand at the baseball stadium, by German, Chris von de Ahe, then owner of St. Louis Browns, Major League of Baseball team.[1]

Another version claims that a hot dog in a known character today was invented in 1904 by Bavarian Anton Feuchtwanger, a salesman at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition exhibition. During this exhibition, he lent people his white gloves so that they could hold his hot sausages. Since most of the gloves were not returned, he turned to his brother-in-law, a baker who prepared special long rolls for him to put these sausages in.[1]

Culinary historian Bruce Kraig, a retired professor at Roosevelt University, noted that many would like to claim the name "inventor" of a hot dog. However, given the German sources of the tradition of eating bread sausages, this form of food was most likely spread by German immigrants and became part of American culture in a slightly changed form.[1]

