Mercury – the smallest and closest planet of the solar system. As a lower planet, it is always close to the Sun for the Earth's observer, which is why it is difficult to observe. Still, it is one of the planets visible to the naked eye and was known in ancient times. Mercury can only be seen just before sunrise or just after sunset.

The formation of Mercury's surface resembles the Moon: there are numerous impact craters on it and it is devoid of atmosphere. The surface temperature varies from −173 °C to 427 °C. Unlike the Moon, however, the planet has a large iron nucleus, generating a magnetic field one hundred times weaker than the Earth's.[4] The size of the nucleus makes Mercury one of the highest density among solar system planets[5] (The earth has a slightly higher density). Mercury has no natural satellites.

Mercury’s first documented observations date back to the first millennium BC. The ancient Greeks initially believed that they were two heavenly bodies: the first visible only before sunrise (called Apollo), the second visible only after sunset (called Hermes)[6]. Ancient Egyptians, Chaldeans, and later Greek astronomers knew Mercury was the same planet in the morning and evening. This was known to the Egyptians about 1150 B.C.E. Through the rapid motion of the planet, caused by its short orbit, the Romans gave the planet a name in honor of the messenger of the gods and patron of merchants – Mercury. The astronomical symbol of the planet is a stylized version of Caduceus Hermes[7].

Compared to other planets of the Solar System about Mercury, relatively little is known; only two probes have examined it so far due to technical problems. The first one – Mariner 10 – flew three times near Mercury in 1974–1975 and made maps of 45% of the surface. The MESSENGER probe in 2008 and 2009 made three flights alongside the planet, after which, in 2011–15, it explored it from orbit as an artificial satellite. Launched in 2018, BepiColombo probe is expected to reach orbit around Mercury in 2025.

.