Taco (l.mn. tacos) is one of the most popular dishes of Mexican cuisine.

It consists mostly of tortilla made of corn or wheat flour, usually small in diameter of several centimeters, and, traditionally and most often, chopped meat (pig, beef, poultry, also offal), however, tacos with fish, seafood and vegetarian and vegan versions are also popular. The most popular additions given from tacos are lime (whose juice has a taste of tacos), pico de gallo (cut tomatoes with onions, coriander and chili) or separately given chopped onions and coriander, sometimes avocado or radish. The tacos are also usually served with a few sals – the most often spicy chili pepper sauces: salsa roja, salsa verde, less often salsa de chile de árbol, la salsa wave.

Tacos is consumed with hands. In Mexico, they are usually sold in the form of street food as so-called antojitos (drinkings), also popular in restaurants[1].

The National Taco Day is celebrated in Mexico on 31 March[2].

Tracos
It is impossible to calculate how many tacos there are – the individual lists usually collect several dozen tacos[3][4], although some sources say they may be over a hundred[2]. The most eaten tacos in Mexico are tacos de carne asada, tacos al pastor, tacos de carnitas, tacos de canasta[5]. Individual types of tacos are devoted to episodes of the first two seasons of the Netflix TV series Chronicle tacos, in which they told about 12 types of tacos. These are: pastor, carnitas, canasta, asada, barbacoa, guisado, suadero, cochinita, cabrito, birria, pescado and taco American. An additional episode was devoted to a taco burrito related[6].

Tacos in the USA
In the United States, in addition to the typical Mexican tacos sold by the Mexican diaspora, the so-called "American tacos" are popular, widespread among others by the American Taco Bell fast food network. Tacos, popular in the United States, and unusual in Mexico, are, for example, so-called hard shells (hard, crisp, bent in half tortillas with place for stuffing), ground meat (in Mexico usually chopped), grated yellow cheese (most often cheddar), chopped lettuce, cream, cooked corn and beans in grains[7].